- [Instructor] Once again, we're going to briefly talk
about the build section here, since we will spend
a significant amount of time on builds later in this course,
but I do want to spend a few moments to introduce
the build configuration that I've already supplied for you.
Once again, let's navigate to the pom file
of our learning maven presidents project.
Now let's navigate down to the build section.
You'll see that instead of dependencies
we're now working with plugins.
While the definition of a plugin
is very similar to a dependency
there's actually a lot more configuration that is available.
This is one place Maven does an amazing job
of documenting these configurations.
Now we have to find a couple of build plugins here,
and we will explain them in all their detail later,
but I do want to focus on the Maven compiler plugin.
You'll see it's a very basic configuration here
telling Maven to use the Java 11 compiler
and to target the Java 11 runtime.
Of course, we've replaced these with properties
from a previous video, but what I want to show you
is how to get this information for you for your plugins.
I want you go to your browser
and navigate to https://maven.apache.org.
In the left navigation pane
you'll see plugins towards the bottom,
and I want you to click on that link.
Now, you will see a list of Apache plugins.
There are also other providers that you can see
towards the bottom of this page as we scroll down,
things that are outside the Maven land.
So for now however, let's find the compiler plugin
and look at it by clicking on it,
and it's towards the top.
Now on the left side, I'd like you to click the usage link.
Here, you'll see basic configuration for the plugin.
Scroll a little further down on the left
and you will see several examples.
These are use cases that you can use
to build your configuration for a specific plugin.
Now, what I would like you to do is select
the Compile Using -source and -target Javac Options.
You'll see an example similar to
what I have done in the exercise files.
This documentation makes configuration
significantly easier, so use this site often
as it will help you.
Now I'd like to finally jump into the terminal
and I want to talk about how to execute a build.
While we are going to talk about the build lifecycle in detail
it's worth noting that executing the build
and everything up to it is as simple
as executing a Maven command,
and to do that let's first navigate to our project,
and we will execute Maven, mvn clean package.
Go ahead and hit enter.
Now the clean here is an optional command
but I use it often when I'm doing Maven projects
because it tends to remove issues
with other Maven operations.
Now the package command produces the final artifact
which in this case is a jar file.
You'll see that we have build success,
so if we navigate to our target directory at this point,
and then we do a ls -la, you'll see
that we have a jar file called
learning-maven-presidents-1.0.0-SNAPSHOT.jar,
and that version, as well as the artifact name
comes from our pom itself, and the jar's also there,
you just don't see it, but we'll talk about packaging
as well later on.
That's all there is to building a project with Maven.